number one the brain's drain
you have a network of tissues and organs
that work together
to keep fluid balanced in your body it
does that by getting rid of toxins and
other
unwanted stuff in the body that network
is called the lymphatic system
but for a long time scientists thought
we didn't have this thing in our brain
until recently in 2015 a report came out
talking about lymphatic vessels in the
membrane of the mice's brains
then sometime later brain imaging showed
that humans have lymphatic vessels
on the membranes of our brains too and
their job is to make way for your immune
cells to go through the central nervous
system
and take out the trash number two
fluid filled spaces in 2018
researchers found a new organ that takes
up a lot of weight in our body
it looks like an oddly shaped honeycomb
wall filled with fluid
it was discovered by accident when
scientists were looking at the tissue of
people's organs
experts named this new organ
interstitium but some others dismissed
the claim
because they believe calling uneven
microscopic spaces filled with fluid an
organ wasn't accurate the interstitium
is a
collagen mesh that shrinks and expands
like a
shock absorber it also acts as a highway
to transport fluids within your organs
and around the body
the volume of the fluid is around twenty
percent of your body weight
but it can fluctuate depending on your
health
number three continuous fan sheet
i'm talking about the mesentery not to
be confused with cemetery
it's a huge sheet of tissue that looks
like a coral
it holds your intestines in place
attaches them to the wall of the abdomen
and helps to store fat until recently
scientists believe it had multiple
little
fragments but they were able to look at
it closely when patients were going
through surgery
there they found that it's actually a
single unit
and it wasn't the first time this was
mentioned even leonardo da vinci showed
it in his drawings
after his continuity was discovered
scientists agreed that it should qualify
as an organ
while other experts disagree
number four blood vessels in the bones
in 2019 scientists talked about a web of
capillaries
small blood vessels within the bones of
mice
normally anatomy books talk about larger
arteries and veins sticking out of the
bone's ends
but there's a newly discovered network
of tunnels that change some theories
these teeny tiny tunnels create a faster
route for blood cells in the bone marrow
to enter the blood system researchers
also looked at human bones using
different methods
taking pictures of patients during
surgery mri scans and microscopy studies
the study found that humans too have a
similar yet less extensive system of
these vessels
number five disappearing reptile muscles
in 2019 researchers found muscles in the
limbs of human
embryos that are usually found in
reptiles
to prove their theory the team made
high-resolution 3d images
of both the arm and leg muscles in 8 to
14 week old embryos
these weird muscles disappear before
birth and may be something we've
inherited from our ancestors
scientists only studied 13 images though
so they say
they'll need to look deeper into it with
larger samples
number six something new in your knee
there's a bone called a fabela and it's
embedded in a tendon behind your knees
a study found that the bone is becoming
more and more common in humans
according to studies in 27 countries
it's three and a half times more likely
to appear in humans now than it was in
the 1900s
nobody knows why it's there and what it
does though
the authors of the paper suggest that
because our diets have gotten better
our bones and muscles are changing in
size
number seven another bone in your head
researchers in australia found that some
young people are growing small bony
extensions at the base of their skulls
right above their necks they looked at
twelve hundred x-rays of australian
adults
and found that forty one percent of
people aged between
eighteen and thirty years old have
developed those small spurs
at first scientists thought that the
extensions appeared because
younger people always have their heads
down browsing their phones
no clear evidence was found to support
this claim though
number eight the re-growing cartilage
just like salamanders can regrow their
limbs humans too
can repair and regenerate cartilage in
their joints
scientists found a molecule that
controls the regeneration process
that same molecule is more active in
animals that can regrow their body parts
like salamanders african freshwater fish
and
zebrafish on top of that they found that
the age of the cartilage depends on its
location
for example the cartilage in the ankles
is younger than that in the knees and
hips
which could be why it takes longer for
knees and hips to heal than your ankles
number nine new pain organ like we need
another
in another study scientists found a
mesh-like web of cells
inside the skin that can sense pain
before
everyone thought that our nerve endings
were responsible for detecting pain
but now it turned out those nerves were
enclosed by an
unknown cell type in the skin it
responds to pain and transmits this
annoying sensation to the nerves
scientists are still studying this
newfound mystery and trying to figure
out
how it may link to various medical
problems
number 10 the extra finger
it's okay to have a half a dozen fingers
on each hand in fact
it's even better a study with two
six-fingered individuals
found that it works to their benefit
they both have better motor skills and
ability when it comes to object
manipulation
the two people went through mris and
they showed their brains figured out how
to use and control the additional finger
to their advantage
they could use it both on its own and
teamed up with the other five fingers
scientists also learned that people with
six fingers can carry out simple tasks
that normally require both hands
with just one 11.
the jello violin it's got nothing to do
with gelatin
it's a thin blob of tissue inside your
ear
that helps your hearing 97 of it is made
of water
and it also helps to bring sound waves
from the ear
all the way to the nerve receptors and
then the brain
a study on mice found that the jello can
help a cavity
inside your ear to separate high
frequencies from low ones
and it does that by changing its
stiffness
number 12 the lifelong cell
new research found that people who make
it to 110 years old
have higher concentrations of a rare
cell in their system
it's an immune cell that may help to
protect older people
against health-related problems the
cell's job is to command other immune
cells on what they have to do
by releasing special chemicals the study
can't yet prove those immune cells are
the only reason people become
super centenarians unfortunately
number 13 your tongue can smell stuff
researchers discover tongues can smell
they grew some human taste cells in
their labs
and found that they had some special
molecules present in our smell cells too
so when they gave taste cells some
smelly molecules
they responded the same way smell cells
did but
get this smell cells are also found in
your gut
hair and other parts of your body in
what's that a smelly belly